Update Readme.md (#1)
DevExpress-Examples/asp-net-web-forms-grid-change-column-filter-in-code: Readme.md

<!-- default badges list -->
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/E4641)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Grid for ASP.NET Web Forms - How to programmatically change a column's filter criterion in the grid's filter expression
<!-- run online -->
**[[Run Online]](https://codecentral.devexpress.com/e4641/)**
<!-- run online end -->

This example demonstrates how to programmatically change a column's filter criterion on the server side.

![Filtered Grid](grid-filter-criteria.png)

> In this example, editors below the grid allow users to specify a filter criterion for a column. When a user clicks the **Filter** button, the criterion is applied. Criteria applied to other columns do not change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, editors below the grid allow users to specify a filter criterion for a column. When a user clicks the **Filter** button, the criterion is applied. Filters applied to other columns do not change.
```

## Implementation Details

> To programatically modify a column's filter criterion, you need to split the grid filter expression into column filter criteria. You can use the non-published `CriteriaColumnAffinityResolver.SplitByColumnNames` method for this purpose. The method receives the filter expression as a parameter and returns a value of the `Tuple<CriteriaOperator, IDictionary<string, CriteriaOperator>>` type. The tuple's first item is a criteria operator that cannot be parsed during the internal logic execution. Usually it is null. The second item is a dictionary that stores parsed criteria operators and column names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify a column's filter in code, you need to split the grid filter expression into column filter criteria. You can use the non-published `CriteriaColumnAffinityResolver.SplitByColumnNames` method for this purpose. The method receives the filter expression as a parameter and returns a value of the `Tuple<CriteriaOperator, IDictionary<string, CriteriaOperator>>` type. The tuple's first item is a criteria operator that cannot be parsed during the internal logic execution. Usually, it is null. The second item is a dictionary that stores parsed criteria operators and column names.
```
